# Portfol.io docs

This project is an API that contains a table of portfolios. Each portfolio is an object with a number of properties, for example, the designer's name, a screenshot of the portfolio, and a list of keywords. It's designed to link up to the Portfol.io front end, to display that app's portfolio data.

## Data structure

Each portfolio in the database is an object with the following properties:

- portfolio_id: primary key, generated by the DB
- site_url TEXT
- site_image TEXT
- description TEXT
- experience_level TEXT
- keywords TEXT
- voting_score INT
- designers_name TEXT


## How to use the API, e.g. the paths to retrieve all, or perform keyword searches, etc.

1. Get all portfolio's : 
 http://localhost:3001/portfolio


2. Search portfolio using a keyword: 
 http://localhost:3001/portfolio/?keyword=art


 3. Search portfolio based on experience level 
http://localhost:3001/portfolio/?experience=Beginner

Experience level options are: beginner , mid-level and experienced. 
Experience level is not case sensitive.

4. Search portfolio based on designer name:
http://localhost:3001/portfolio/?designer=Irina

Designer name is case sensitive.


5. Search portfolio by id:
http://localhost:3001/portfolio/1

You must send a get request to this URL in order to get a specific portfolio by id. 



6. Delete portfolio by id:
http://localhost:3001/portfolio/1

You must send a delete request to this URL in order to delete the portfolio by id. 


7. Update all properties of a specific portfolio by id:
http://localhost:3001/portfolio/1

You must send a put request to this URL in order to update the portfolio by id. 


8. Add portfolio: 
http://localhost:3001/portfolio/

You must send a post request to this URL in order to add a portfolio. You don't need to specify an id as the database will assign you with an id. A successful post request will return a 201 status code. 


## How to reset the db 
dbResetPortfolio is a script included in the package.json
To reset database write into your terminal `npm dbResetPortfolio`. This script includes the path of the delete, create and  populate portfolio files. 

## Env variables: what to name your envs to link up an external db
You can use Heroku credentials in .env file to link to external database. 


## Tests - what are they testing for, i.e. what can you be sure will be OK if the tests pass

Routes/portfolio.test.js: 
1. To test if the get request, to recieve all the portfolio's, is successful. The test will check to see if the response.body includes the correct properties and primitive data type in the portfolio object. A successful get request test will return a 200 status code. 

2. To test if the get request will send back specific portfolio using id. 

3. To test if the post request will create a new portfolio. 

4. To test if the delete request will delete a specific portfolio using its id. 

5. To test if the put request will update the voting score of a specific portfolio using its id. 


Model/portfolio.test.js: 
1. A test to see if the overall structure of the portoflio object is correct which consists of the properties and its primitive data types. 

2. To test if the `getPortfolio` function returns correct the correct array of objects with the correct structure tested above. 

3. To test if the `getPortfoliosByExperience` function returns the correct object structure with the request experience level only.

4. To test if the `getPortfoliosByKeyword` function returns the correct object structure with the request of keywords only.

5. To test if the `getPortfoliosByDesigner` function will return with an array of objects with the correct structure for the specified Designer.

6. To test if the `getPortfolioById` function will return with an object for that Id with the correct structure.

# Original project brief

## National Bootcamp - Week Nine Project Brief

For your project, you’ll be using what you’ve learned on the course so far to try and improve the lives of your users. In this case, the users will be close to home: bootcampers!

To do this, you’ll need to take the time to understand your user (a bootcamper), their experiences, and their problems. Specifically, it might be good to focus on how to enhance the remote experience of a bootcamper, or what can help them with the vast amount of learning there is to do as a new developer. What do they need? What problem might they have that your application could solve for them? How can you get into the mindset of your user and keep them at the centre of your problem-solving?

The high level outcomes from this project should be:

-   A minimum viable product (MVP) showcasing an innovative full stack application which meets the user need you’ve identified
-   A presentation, complete with how you worked as a team and a demonstration of the project

Your project application might include the following:

-   Include a user experience created in React
-   Build a REST API which is used by your front-end
-   Be supported by a Postgresql database with multiple tables
-   Be built and managed in an agile way
-   Utilise testing for ensuring robust code

Remember, you only have a few days to code a solution, so being agile is key. That means brainstorming what you want to build, and working in sprints to deliver value each time. After each sprint, you can reassess and either continue on course or iterate towards a better solution. Have a plan which is incremental steps, rather than all or nothing.

Click the link to see the [Project Guidelines](https://github.com/SchoolOfCode/project-guidelines/blob/master/project-week.md)
